.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
.\" kcov-wrapper-ptrace man page
.\" Copyright (C) 2026  Kcov Wrapper Ptrace Contributors
.TH KCOV-WRAPPER-PTRACE 1 "2026-04-30" "kcov-wrapper-ptrace 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
kcov-wrapper-ptrace \- collect KCOV coverage segmented by system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kcov-wrapper-ptrace
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR]
\fI\,PROGRAM\/\fR
[\fI\,ARGS\/\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kcov-wrapper-ptrace
uses Linux
.BR ptrace (2)
to trace a target process at system-call granularity. At each
system-call exit, it reads the KCOV shared buffer, deduplicates
the program-counter (PC) addresses, and appends them to an output
file annotated with the syscall number.

After the target exits, a second pass produces a sorted, unique
PC list suitable for coverage-guided fuzzing or kernel regression
analysis.

Unlike tools such as
.BR kcov (1)
or
.BR perf (1),
this tool attributes each PC to the specific system call that
triggered it, enabling per-syscall coverage analysis.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fIFILE\fR"
Detailed output file with syscall annotations (default:
.IR pcs_detailed.txt ).
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unique-output " \fIFILE\fR"
Deduplicated unique PC output (default:
.IR pcs.txt ).
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-kcov-path " \fIPATH\fR"
Path to the KCOV debugfs device (default:
.IR /sys/kernel/debug/kcov ).
Also settable via the
.B KCOV_PATH
environment variable.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " \fISEC\fR"
Kill the traced process after
.I SEC
seconds. A value of 0 means no timeout.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-buffer-size " \fIN\fR"
Number of entries in the KCOV shared buffer (default: 1048576).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-compact-threshold " \fIN\fR"
Compaction threshold in GB (default: 1). When the detailed output
file exceeds this size, it is compacted in-place: all (PC, syscall)
pairs are read, sorted, deduplicated, and rewritten.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print diagnostic information during collection.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.SH OUTPUT
.TP
.I pcs_detailed.txt
One PC per line with optional syscall annotation:
.RS
.PP
0x\fIaddress\fR syscall=\fIN\fR
.PP
0x\fIaddress\fR syscall=\fIN1\fR,\fIN2\fR,...
.RE
.TP
.I pcs.txt
Sorted unique PC addresses, one per line:
.RS
.PP
0x\fIaddress\fR
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Trace
.BR ls (1):
.PP
.RS
kcov-wrapper-ptrace ls /
.RE
.PP
Trace with custom output paths and verbose mode:
.PP
.RS
kcov-wrapper-ptrace -o my_detailed.txt -u my_pcs.txt -v \\
.RS
/usr/bin/my-program --flag arg
.RE
.RE
.PP
Resolve PCs to symbols using
.BR kcov-sym (1):
.PP
.RS
kcov-sym /boot/vmlinux pcs.txt
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B KCOV_PATH
Default KCOV device path when
.B \-\-kcov-path
is not given.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Linux kernel with
.BR CONFIG_KCOV=y .
.B debugfs
mounted at
.IR /sys/kernel/debug .
Typically requires
.B root
or
.BR CAP_SYS_PTRACE .
.SH ARCHITECTURE SUPPORT
RISC-V (riscv64), x86_64, and ARM64 (aarch64). ARM64 support is
currently experimental.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /sys/kernel/debug/kcov
Default KCOV device.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kcov-sym (1),
.BR ptrace (2),
.BR kcov (1),
.BR perf (1)
.br
.UR https://\:github.\:com/\:6eanut/\:kcov-wrapper-ptrace
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://\:github.\:com/\:6eanut/\:kcov-wrapper-ptrace\:/issues
.UE
